The Joe Rogan experience. So dude, this is get into this man.
We had this conversation at the comedy store. I'm like,
you got to come on the podcast.
We gotta talk about this because you are a part of probably the most iconic
boxing interview of our day. You with Deontay Wilder,
when Deontay Wilder freaked out on you, it became this huge,
huge thing too. To this day, to this day, to this day,
he puts it on his Instagram.
He puts it in hashtags till this day, sell.
Sweatshirts with till this day on them.
There's a store that's adjacent to the Barclay center.
It's connected to the Barclay center and it's full of.
It says to this day on it, he had a grand opening there. I was invited to it.
So that is an iconic meme. This is now a major part of my identity.
Do people associate you with it though?
Do they like automatically or did they just cause it's you're you see the side
of your face, but you see him angry as.
Arguably the scariest heavyweight of all time. I mean, Mike,
Tyson's right up there. Mike C.
Off stick off ring.
Outside of the ring. Deontay is a sweetheart. He's a really nice guy.
So to see him angry outside the ring is kind of weird because I had him
on the podcast. He couldn't be a nicer guy. He's true.
He's a really nice guy.
And so to see him angry at you to this day and like giving you crazy
eyes, that was like, oh, and when you explained it, it was like, yeah,
that's what you do in an interview. You, you,
you want someone to expand and say, what do you.
Mean by that? Yeah. And listen, man, this is not like the first day we met.
So it had just happened upon this heavyweight champion of the world screaming
and it decided to them off. We've had multiple conversations,
sat down for hours at a time. In fact, in Belfast, in Germany,
he, uh, or Ireland, I'm sorry, we sat down for an hour and I'm going.
So I'm going to give you the call,
give you the context of what I was thinking in the moment, right. Was onstage.
Tell him, cause some people might not be aware of exactly what happened.
So just try it. So there it is right there.
In a couple of weeks, we're going to see it again. I don't know.
We're going to see the exact same thing happened.
Seasonal Deontay Wilder is facing Tyson fury.
Tyson fury is a British gypsy. Okay. He's a boisterous,
very animated, a showman in boxing. Heavyweights, mind you,
these guys are giant. First time they met, this is December 18.
So, uh, I traveled the world covering boxing everywhere. Like I said,
I sat down with this guy in Ireland. I've covered Tyson fury in, uh, England.
I've covered them in America. I've covered boxing, literally everywhere.
So I'm familiar with what you also know that fighting even
sports boxing, MMA, there's a regional aspect to it.
Like everybody's culture brings something to it.
The Irish fighter feels like he's got a certain style.
He's got a certain history. He's got a claim to the warrior legacy.
Same for the British fighter. Of course the American fighter.
But both of these guys come from, what's like an underclass of their society.
Uh,
travelers gypsies in England are looked down upon these people
are cultural fighters.
And I don't mean necessarily just the oppression of being an underclass,
but fighting is part of their tradition.
Almost like it is to Mexicans in Mexico. It's something that they do that bonds.
The clan is they believe in the history of it.
Obviously Jonty waters from Alabama, you know, he's as dark as midnight.
He is a descendant of slaves for sure. Okay.
He's got a history coming to any fight,
bringing what he experiences in this country to this element of the
face off one, man, one man versus one man.
So when Tyson Fury's on stage during the press conference at something,
uh, possessed him to say, you know, I'm coming from a fighting people.
My people have been fighting for 200 years. Well in context,
he means that the culture of travelers of gypsies is one.
We're fighting, man. I'm a fighting man.
That's something that they say about themselves and each other.
So that's what he's bringing to this argument.
That's how he's challenging Wilder.
But Wilder takes that and says 200 years of fight.
My people have been fighting for 400 years. Of course,
he's talking about the black experience in America, slavery, all the all alike,
but mind you, he's talking to a British fighter.
He's talking to a world audience.
It's not like he's fighting Dominick Brazil. You know what I'm saying?
Where it's two Americans,
probably not going to get that much international attention.
The world's watching particularly communities that don't necessarily
know when a black man says 400 years. You know, I know, you know,
cause we grew up in a mountain. You know what we're talking about?
The world doesn't know that I travel the world. They're not just,
they're not steeped in black American history. I've had conversations with him.
He loves to talk about the plight of the black man in America
and how it relates to his career, how he feels, you know,
disadvantaged in certain ways.
And he carries the mantle and other ways he's a champion of black America in
certain ways. And he's a victim of white America and other ways.
So when I see this argument happening, I'm like, oh, okay,
well this is definitely a moment, but I'm not a pool reporter. Right?
So in this particular instance,
it's unusual for me to be part of the scrum is when they call it collection of,
uh, reporters, uh, everybody's kinda shouting questions out,
just trying to evoke responses. Usually I'm a one-on-one guy. I'll wait my turn.
Right. But on this particular day, you know,
you're the way I didn't have a hair cut. I wasn't really, I was coming.
I just got back from Dubai and went on to Dubai with like, you know,
Dave Chappelle, I'm hanging out it's after Thanksgiving. And he's like,
you know what? I'm going to kind of mail this one in, to be honest,
I'm thinking,
let me throw something out because I know what he's talking about.
And I also know that the audience around us in the world,
especially may not have caught that reference, but he is, he's a,
it's a high watermark right now. It's Thursday and the fight Saturday.
So he's amped up. Yeah. That's the other thing.
Fight week fighters are not themselves,
not the guy you were sitting across from doing the experience. Right.
You know what I mean? That guy was having a good day.
This guy has been waiting to fight for at least three months. If not,
you know, 10 weeks.
Ramped up rant. Right.
He comes off stage. He answered a couple of other questions.
And then just to be sure, because I've been doing this a long time,
not an idiot. I know he's amped. And I want him to get the question clearly,
Deontay radio Raheem. I say my name.
So he knows who it's coming from. Not because he doesn't know me,
but because he does. So radio Raheem, you just said, uh,
your people have been fighting for 400 years. Okay. First of all,
I'm in the midst of my question. I don't do these things. Uh, uh,
haphazardly. I wear my questions very carefully. Yes.
But in the ears of black America later in this, later on the story,
you'll find out that your people, that part of the question became,
uh, incredibly important.
And people were very sensitive about that because you said your PR people
instead of our people, but I'm quoting the guy. Right? Okay.
I'm not speaking for him. I'm quoting what he said. He said,
my people have been fighting for years. So if he had said our people,
I would have said our people, but I can't take possession of your quote.
It's not me saying it, juicing it. Right?
Your people have been fighting 30 years. What did you mean by that? So,
uh, laser focus turns to me he's already at 10.
Like there's no ramp up at this time. And he started shouting my face,
like, uh, your people too, but you know what I'm talking about? He says,
don't try to bait, you know what I'm talking about when I say these things,
when I'm like, well, yeah, I do. Can you tell them what you're talking about?
And to get them to expand,
tryna get them to explain to the world what he said to me on
numerous occasions, in different interviews and off camera.
I know exactly what he's talking about.
And I know that this is the moment that he finally gets to talk about it to
people who have never been listening to him before. But
we heard your it a trigger for him too. I'm so oblivious.
And I even looking back, I'm like, man, how did you miss that?
I D I swear to God, I didn't know what the was. The problem.
He starts seeing shout in your people. And I'm like, whoa, whoa.
It took me him. He couldn't eat. He needed to keep saying it.
They didn't know why he was saying that. Yeah. My people to my people too.
Oh, here's a moment. I'm like, oh,
I thought he sounded, oh my goodness. Oh no.
You know, our people have been fighting for 400 years to this day, to this day.
And so what I wanted, what I wanted,
what I thought was happening was that, okay,
this moment now has become about him.
Like attacking me because he thinks I'm attacking him. He thinks,
because I do know what he's talking about. He knows we've spoken about it.
But numerous times he thinks I'm pretending not to now,
like some, you know, air quotes, uncle Tom, or you know,
the numerous names I've been called on the internet. Since,
as though I'm trying to pretend like, oh, I don't want 400 years.
I'm like, oh, okay. Okay. Okay, fine.
So when he's screaming at you,
what is going through your mind when he's hitting you with,
is it to this day or til this day? Cause there was a debate on that.
First of all, let's see, let's play it, play it.
You know what I'm talking about? Y'all all know what I'm talking about, man.
Don't sit up here and try to bait. It's not know what I'm talking about.
Y'all know what the I talk about when I say these things y'all are people to
explain it. I am not. Everybody knows what I'm talking about. Radio right here.
I don't have to explain. What's understood, man. You know what I mean? By that?
You know what I say about it? I ain't got to go farther. And if nobody,
if anybody don't understand that, then God be with them, go look up the history,
go look up the history, this ain't don't everybody believe in Google,
go Google that. See what I'm talking about? You know what I'm talking about,
man. You know what? I dare you to sit up there and say, he's explaining,
you know, what I'm talking about, man is fighting people. You know,
we've been fighting 400 still fighting to this date, to this date,
to this date. You just sit here.
You don't know what I'm talking about
of here, bro. Let's go, come on. Let's go.
You don't have to keep playing it. But just so you know,
there's more to this video. In fact, the last guy says, oh,
well we know we know what he's talking about.
That's what I just said at the end.
But that clip everyone in the world has seen.
It's very neatly on Instagram in a minute. Oh right.
So you missed the beginning and the end,
but.
20 Or 19,
or went to the new age of clips and things being taken out of context.
So listen.
This is not the first time I've had an interview that has, you know,
gotten a major tangent. Not the first time a fire has been off at me.
I knew that this was going to be a big thing.
I know people are going to talk about it, bro.
I had no concept of what was about to happen to my
night. Like.
I'm like basically when you're a reporter like this, you're like, okay,
well that was dramatic. And we've got a hot one. I, I might get me a, you know,
a few hundred thousand, if not a million views, maybe like, yeah, we got,
we got the chip. But also I'm thinking, you know,
it's something of a success like, okay, we got him to express.
At least it is in that moment. Something that we don't usually see,
it's fight week. We talked to this guy a million times.
Everyone's had their interviews. He's been on every show.
And that was like the realest moment in the whole buildup. So for me,
that in and of itself is something of a victory. Like you,
you've created a moment here where.
You got to see inside the Champ's heart. You got to see like.
His passion. When I get home though, I gotta take a nap.
Like it's been a long day. It's good. So as, as these stories tend to go,
I'm woken up by chimes on my phone to team, to team, to take to things
going on in the interim. He's posted on Instagram,
just a minute of what is really like a two and a half minute interview where it
looks so bad. Like, um,
paragraph essentially about having to like, you know,
teach people like basically not to be uncle Tom's and how you got it.
Like she straightened it out and like there's a whole like civil rights
diatribe. And I'm the pin cushion.
I'm the straw man. I'm the guy. Oh my God. Uh,
I start to of course read the comms. I'm like,
well maybe is there any possible way? This is good, bro. Everybody's like,
that guy.
[inaudible] this like, oh no. Oh no.
I'm also not like a stranger to criticism. Not a stranger.
YouTube comes. I live on YouTube. It's one of the most vicious places on earth.
If you ever want to like, just get humbled.
If you ever feel in too big abides though, post a YouTube video,
let it sit there for about an hour and then start reading the cons.
I don't care who you are. It'll bring it down or not.
But this is another element, bro. Rihanna was like upset.
Like at me, I don't want Rihanna mad at me and even Oriana,
like why I don't want to start our relationship. This
doc who we all now know can be incredibly vicious
when he's upset at somebody over something.
Yo, yo.
You teach that. So like yeah. You know, inward his plates like.
Bro Snoop, Don's mad at me.
What are you feeling when this is going on? How many knots are in your stomach?
Panicking? I'm panicking.
I'm way more comfortable with him shouting in my face and having no idea whether
or not like this can go any kind of way. But at least I understand the moment,
like at least I'm in control of a half of it, right? This is a,
this is a train on fire off the rails. You know what I mean? And the,
of course the more people respond to it.
Celebrities and you know, other fighters and alike,
the more emboldened he is to double down on it, like,
hell this is a moment the fights not selling well, you know what I mean? Uh,
they've been given him stick overseas for not being known anywhere.
They're saying you can walk down the street and you know,
Eddie Hearn to this video where he's asking people in New York, like,
do they know Deontay Wilder? And he made a whole video of him saying no.
So at this moment I also have to give context of what's happening in his career.
At this moment, he's knocking everybody out. It's WBC, heavyweight champion.
He can't get the fight to unify. Like with Joshua,
they're saying he's a nobody essentially can't he's not worth the money because
nobody knows who he is. He's fighting.
Arguably the toughest fight he could have possibly pit Tyson.
Fury is an incredibly technical fighter. No one thinks of Deontay.
Wilder's a technical technician.
Like they're thinking this guy's going to get out class.
He can lose his belts this way and not be making as Nick Denali made a ton of
money for that fight. So now that all his attention is on him.
And like I said, it's the subject he loves to talk about.
He's a hero. He's like a champion of black America in this moment.
I'm just sort of like collateral damage
boost the out of that fight though. Ticket sales through the roof,
the F the moments viral it's everywhere.
People didn't even know the fight was happening until this meme just is
in their inboxes. People, people are like.
To this day, meme is taking over the internet and it'll speak to your soul.
Yeah. Oh my, yeah.
This became like the flagship moment for black
woke people to tell like, you know, the black
class Kermit.
The it, oxygen, oxygen mask on. And it says,
you still in your parents' phone me
to this day.
Internet. The internet is so God funny. Oh my God,
this point is kicking my.
Oh. Um.
Yeah. So as this thing gets bigger and bigger,
uh, I started to realize that it's it's well out of my control.
And then I have to start to think about what my role really is.
It's not about me.
It's not what I do is. And so that people can feel one way or another about me.
It's really, again,
taking myself back to that initial moment of showing them something about the
fighter that they haven't seen.
Let's get a look inside this guy and get them to share something.
Usually they just verbally that they didn't know or that he there wasn't,
he didn't come to the room expecting to share. Right.
And I support people,
understanding the culture from which he,
we come as black Americans.
I w I wanted to give him the stage to do exactly that didn't turn out.
Like I expected tonic, like civil rights,
a guest type of moment. It,
it became one of those things that people identify with black power,
black information being like, yo, this is, this is what we're experiencing.
And this is how deep it still runs at that time in 2018. Did.
You think about it? Like in retrospect, how could I phrase that better?
I mean, I'm sure you did, right? What could you have said?
Cause you wanted to get that out of there.
You wanted to get him to S to expand on it. I.
Think that it was exactly the right thing at the right time.
I couldn't have predicted in a million years, it would have went that way,
but that's the way it was supposed to go. If I had phrased it, so-called better.
And he had given him more reason, thoughtful answer.
We wouldn't be sitting here.
He would've made less money to the fight.
Went and sold less tickets, less paper views. No, that when it went viral,
you wouldn't have gave a about my side of the story.
The moment doesn't exist. Right. Right. And that's the beauty of it. Well, you.
Were telling me in the back of the comedy store, I'm like, oh, that's.
You right. Oh my God.
So the blessing and the angle on the camera work in,
in some regard is some people don't know it's me.
And I'm so happy for that. Oh my God. And the,
but the ones who do there's enough who do, so I'm telling you Joe, every day,
since then, it's been over a year. Now, someone somewhere,
every time I've left my home. And sometimes while I'm still in,
it has shouted in my face.
That's how they say hello. People don't even know my name.
Oh my God.
God. Yeah. Oh my God.
You know, Hey man, it's a godson really?
It's something that captured everybody's attention in a,
and if there'd been anything else, I can't imagine how it would have done that.
Right.
It wouldn't have no,
it had to be that crazy in his eyes because he's so ramped up,
getting ready for that fight. And he's so angry. He takes the glasses off.
I'm like, I remember watching, I was nervous. I was nowhere near him. Yeah.
You must've been your pants. Okay. But you know him, right.
So you probably weren't your pants, but you probably like very uncomfortable.
I absolutely was.
Not my pants. It wasn't. In fact, in the, in the exchange,
I'm quite calm. I'm just trying on the one hand,
I'm trying to figure out what's happening in the beginning because I didn't
understand like the rage being directed at me for, I'm telling you for a minute.
I thought he was just talking to white Americans. Like yeah. Get him.
Oh my goodness. This is, this is my bad. According to him. Oh my goodness.
So once he's like, you know, I'm done, man.
Like he just walks off in disgust.
I been fight him 20 minutes later.
And I interview him again this time and much more calm and reason fashion.
I let him lay out what it was about what I expect to happen the first time a lot
of people who've seen it, not a fraction of the people who've seen that.
I do know the guy, but as you know, these people are warriors man,
and their blood's running high and may, and he saw red light. At that time.
We weren't friends. We weren't homies. He didn't remember Belfast. He didn't,
he thought I was coming for him. So even though I know of him,
I don't know him. You know what I mean? I don't know.
What's really going to happen in this moment. Right. It was doing my job.
Like I can't be afraid to do that. So whatever happened to this moment,
this is what's going to be, you got a great.
Perspective on it though. You're so right.
That without that moment blowing up like that,
the fight doesn't become as big as it is. The meme doesn't exist.
You don't become more popular. Right. Right.
And he even did like a segment, but, uh,
before a fight on Showtime where he like went through a black hair,
like a black history segment on show time because of this,
like,
it actually created a moment that put him in position to
be the kind of representative of that issue that he wanted
to be. And it gave me an opportunity to be seen,
even though in a lot of quarters initially negatively,
I was also seen as the journalist who pulled that out, like,
I'm the other guy, I'm the guy on the other side of that camera that yes.
Created that moment. And I've been doing this long enough to where my fan base,
people who know my work, what a stand me.
They know that I think they know I'm not an idiot. And then I,
I like to think they know I'm not a sell out,
but they really know me because I don't ever make it about me.
I don't like this interview we're having is a,
is a unicorn like I've maybe done three or four or five of these in my entire
life where I'm talking about my perspective on anything.
I entirely showing up at every press conference, every fight,
every way in every media workout,
trying to get something out of the fighter to be
consumed by the audience in a way that maybe they hadn't seen it before,
not just for the audience's sake,
but I want the fighter to get in touch with something like there's so many of
these platitude questions in the same old.
And nobody's really like digging deep. These aren't one dimensional characters.
These are actual bowls. These aren't just gladiators are fathers. They're sons.
They're like they have civil rights issues.
They have cultural things are bringing to this thing.
They have all like depression. We know all the things that fighters go through,
but they only want to show you one side.
Cause they don't want to show any vulnerability and their fans.
Aren't interested in anything other than who's up and who's down.
If that's all you're feeding them. So I try to get out of the way.
I don't want to get in front of the work. So when people see me in this light,
a lot of people just like, oh, this guy must be a uncle, Tom, then
Snoop dog thing. So clearly that's who this guy is.
Have you touched the Snoop since I taught this new thing, he just like,
what about Instagram? That's what I'm saying. Oh no.
But I have talked to Wilder many times since then. And to this guy's credit,
never even, even the, even the 20 minutes after you're right.
We didn't know each other. We do have a history.
And he is now knowing the moment they created and knowing what he did to
me in that moment has always been especially gracious.
He's always been especially helpful. I can always get access to them.
We have a bond now, like we share this thing and it's trickle,
no matter what happens, you know what I mean? Oh my goodness. Yeah.